In this lesson we are going to rewrite this answer form
into vue js component so that new answer can
be added without need to refresh the page. After we
finished that we'll have complete components with
a full set AJAX CRUD for our answers.
All right
let's open up our terminal and then create
new branch to isolate our work today.
git checkout -b lesson 40
And then run web pack by saying npm run watch
OK
Let me open questions
show blade php
And here you can see our answer form included here in this file.
Now when new answer created we need to push it to
answers array which house in answers component so that
it can reactively added in the UI. That means we need to
place our new component or answer form inside the
answers component.
OK let's open up answers
underscore create blade php here
let's copy everything.
Now let's go to assets js components.
And here let's create new file and I'll call it new answer dot vue
here let's add template
and paste the markup.
Let's remove the action and method attributge from the form
and we don't need this csrf token because
laravel has handled that in bootstrap dot
js
And then let's remove the validation stuff from this text
area because we will implement simple client side
validation
So as we did before
so here let's add html 5 required attribute
And then let's bind the body of the question to this text area
using two way data binding v-model
body.
Also let's disable this button if answer is invalid.
All right let's define the component logic in the script tag
add data method
and then return object
and it's contain body of the answer
which should be empty default.
And then let's define computed property
And define the is invalid method
here we simply check if the user not sign in
or the length of the answer body that entered is less than 10.
So this is invalid method will return true
at least one of this condition is met
OK
Before we add more code in here let's register this component
as a local component in the answers component.
Let's open up answers dot vue
and then import our new answer component by
saying import new answer from new answer dot vue
And then add it in this components property.
Now in template we need to place the new
answer component after our list answers
outside this row div and because in a single file component
it should be only one parent element so here
let's add another div
and move the row that contains all answers inside.
And then add new answer component
let's save all changes.
And let's make sure we have no error
reload the page.
Let me open developer tool
OK
we have no error and I think it should be fine.
Oh no I have two answer forms.
I need to remove the last one
that stay in show blade php
Let me switch back over to my editor.
And then I'll reopen show blade php and here I'll remove this line.
Reload again
now there's only one form and as
you can see the button is inactive.
If we answer something more than 10 characters
the button become active immediately.
OK
Great.